---
title: "Release 23.1 Notes"
slug: "2023-3-31"
createdAt: "2023-03-30T15:41:01.198Z"
hidden: false
---
This page enumerates the new features and updates in Release 23.1 of the Fiddler platform.

## Release of Fiddler platform version 23.1:

- New monitoring chart editor

- New dashboard reporting tool

- Flexible model deployment options

- Scale & performance improvements

- GitHub samples migration

## What's New and Improved:

- **New flexible monitoring chart editor**
  - Create customized charts for model monitoring metrics like Performance,Data Drift, Data Integrity, and more.
  - Learn more on the [Monitoring Charts Platform Guide](https://docs.fiddler.ai/v1.7/docs/monitoring-charts-platform).

- **New dashboard reporting tool for monitoring charts**
  - Combine the monitoring charts that help track model performance and health in a cohesive dashboard for your reporting needs.
  - Learn more on the [Dashboards Platform Guide](https://docs.fiddler.ai/v1.7/docs/dashboards-platform).

- **Flexible model deployment options**
  - Fiddler now supports flexible model deployment by allowing users to spin up separate k8s pods for each model and varying dependencies for their models.
  - Learn more on the [Flexible Model Deployment](doc:model-deployment) page.

- **Scale and performance improvements**
  - Efficiently register models with 2,000 features within just 30 minutes
  - Performance improvements across Vector Monitoring, Multiclass Classification, and Ranking scenarios.

- **Migrating all Fiddler samples to new GitHub repository**
  - The `fiddler-samples` GitHub repository will be deprecated and replaced by the new [`fiddler-examples`](https://github.com/fiddler-labs/fiddler-examples) repository.

### Client Version

Client version 1.7 is required for the updates and features mentioned in this release.